So we're gonna dive into this exercise for
a bit.
We won't take the full time cuz it'll
probably take a full 30 minutes.
But I wanna work through
some of the questions.
And by the end of this exercise,
I want you to have a better understanding
of what are your motivations?
What do you think will be challenges?
And consider this just
a personal reflection.
It'll help you down the road, whether or
not you decide to move to management or
not.
Just good to stop and reflect.
So I'm gonna dive right in here.
So purpose extras just ask
you open-ended questions, and
you have to answer them yourself.
Obviously, I can't help you here.
But questions that I honestly
probably should have asked
myself before I made the jump,
I just did it and
I didn't really think critically
about the path to management.
Because we've talked about
management is a really big change.
If you're a bad manager, and we've all
agreed we've all had bad managers,
they leave an impact on you and
maybe not in a good way.
And a good manager,
sometimes you don't even notice.
You may have had actually a managers,
you've been lucky.
They probably haven't even realized
that cuz what they do is so subtle, but
at the end of the day you have a lot
of responsibilities as a manager.
So it's really important
to understand yourself and
why you wanna be in this
particular position.
There's some here's some starter
questions just for yourself.
Just, you don't have to answer it.
But just to think about critically.
About what are your career motivations?
What do you see yourself
doing in 5 to 10 years?
Things I hadn't really thought of.
Back when I was a software engineer, it
was just code, more code, code, more code,
that's all that matters.
But you end up where you point yourself,
and
it's good to have a direction of where you
want to take your career and your life.
And does being a manager
align with your career goals?
Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't, but
we talked about it's not a promotion,
it's a role change.
You don't have to do it.
There's many paths and many roles in
technology and in software engineering.
And what kind of work do you enjoy
doing if you're a software engineer?
That work may change or maybe the project
leadership, the people leadership side,
it's actually work you enjoy
doing a little bit more.
Just some questions ask yourself.
So the first question
to ask you to answer.
You could write your answers down here.
Why do you want to become
an engineering manager?
This, when you get an interview and
you make this transition to a role,
is the first question, or
one of the questions that will come up.
And people ask it different ways.
You'll probably get it different rounds,
but people wanna know,
why do you wanna become
an engineering manager?
We talked earlier about those motivations
and the good motivations and bad.
Some of you need to work out for
yourself, but
a question you should ask yourself if
you do wanna make a transition, why?
Why do you wanna become
an engineering manager?
Then, when you're an engineering manager,
what do you think the biggest
challenge will be?
You're probably gonna be wrong
here [LAUGH] being honest.
The thing you think is hard
might be actually easy, and
the thing you think is easy.
You probably haven't considered will
be one of the most difficult parts.
And then ask yourself what aspects
are you most excited about?
Remember that joy of delivering,
that joy of shipping,
the joy of closing bugs and checking
things off, won't be there as close.
So in everything you've learned so far,
what aspects are you
actually excited about?
What are you most excited about?
What are you least excited about?
I'll tell you the thing
I'm least excited about.
Party planning, social activities,
I'm an introvert.
I know it doesn't seem it, but I recharge
my battery by being by myself at home,
reading a book, playing a video game.
As a software engineer,
I got a lot of that time cuz I'm not
in meetings most of the time,
I'm heads-down coding.
But the social aspect's important,
so I have to put myself out there,
it's a stretch for me.
And planning parties and planning social
events, happy hours, things like that.
Even to this day, I'm not thrilled about
doing, I do it because it's good for
the team.
And I always enjoyed it in the day but
probably not something I was super
excited about coming to management.
And then during the transition would,
knowing everything you know now about
the truth of software engineering,
what challenges do you anticipate?
We talked a lot about letting go code but
is there more to it than that?
Is it you don't know how to write emails?
You gotta do that.
You gotta be able to write?
Is it public speaking?
You gotta run meetings now.
We'll talk about the meanings
you're gonna run.
But you have to do that, and
there's a lot of different challenges.
Some people, it depends on your strengths
and your things you're not so good at.
But what challenges do you anticipate
transitioning from an engineering manager
to an engineering manager?
And more importantly, during this
transition, who can you turn to for
support?
Like I said, my first year was,
it was rough because I didn't think
of turning to my friends who knew,
who were engineering managers, or
even being honest with my manager
about the state of things.
So when you transition,
it's really important to have a support
network cuz they will help you.
They can't do the work for you.
No one knows.
No one knows better than you.
But there's people you can people
that can empathize with you who
have done this journey before.
So it's good to think of them now cuz
you'll need it later down the road.
So, take some time during the next
break or the next day or two and
write down these answer these questions
and if you do become an engineering
manager come back a year later and
look at these answers.
See how your perspective has changed,
maybe it hasn't.
See what you're right about,
see what you're wrong about.
But either way, if you have all these
answers, maybe by the end of it,
it turns out you're like,
you know what, Jim,
I don't wanna be a software
engineering manager.
I've answered all these
questions honestly, and
what brings me joy is not the things
that I would get from being a manager.
Good, good, I hope that's the case.
I don't think it's good to
become a people leader or
a manager if you're not
committed to doing it.
So it's totally fine.
By the end of this exercise,
you should have a good idea about,
is management right for me?